WALTER FIELDS MEETING FOR MARCH
21ST, 2004 CALL PAUL DOWLING
HERE ROBERT HERE YOU FRACK HERE
KEVIN COX DAVID AND STAFF IS
ABSENT FOR CITY STAFF.
>> WE HAVE MICHAEL REDMOND
THERE, MIKE LEMIEUX HERE MYSELF
DEBORAH WILLIAMS WE HAVE A
QUORUM.
THANK YOU.
FIRST ITEM ON THE AGENDA IS
PUBLIC COMMENTARY ASSOCIATED
WITH BILL.
THERE IS NO ONE FOR THAT SECOND
ITEM IS YOUR AGENDA YOUR MOTION
PUT YOUR AGENDA TO MOVE THE
SECOND.
THOSE ARE VERY HIGH PRICES
APPROVAL THE MINUTES FROM THE
NOVEMBER 16, 2023 THAT'S
ATTACHED TO THE PACKET.
ANY COMMENTS ON THOSE WHICH ARE
NOT A MOTION TO MOVE TO APPROVE
THE MINUTES?
>> SECOND, THOSE IN FAVOR BY
PASS THE NEXT ITEM ON THE
AGENDA IS APPEAL'S ACTIONS AND
SHOW CAUSE HEARING.
WE HAVE ONE APPEAL TODAY FOR
BVA TWENTY FOUR ZERO ZERO ONE
APPEAL FOR EIGHTY-THREE
MCKINNEY NERVA 424 AND SO HOW
THE APPEALS PROCESS WORKS WE'LL
HAVE THE APPLICANT COME UP AND
JUST SIGN IN AND WE HAVE THE
STAFF REPORT ON THEIR STAFF
RECOMMENDATIONS TO APPEAL.
THE APPLICANT CAN PRESENT THEIR
CASE AND THEN THE BOARD WILL
HAVE QUESTIONS FOR THE
APPLICANT AND THEN WE'LL MAKE A
MOTION.
SO FOR THE APPEAL TO PASS WE
NEED A MAJORITY OF THE MEMBERS
AND PRESENT TO TO PASS IT.
>> THAT WOULD BE THREE TODAY
WOULD BE THREE SO YOU CAN COME
UP AND SIGN IN AND STATE YOUR
NAME AND THEN WE'LL GET A STAFF
REPORT.
GOOD AFTERNOON.
MY NAME IS ANNA PERCENT.
>> I'M FROM A STUDIO
REPRESENTING THE OWNER AND THE
ATO THREE MACKINLEY TO ME TO GO
INTO FURTHER STEPS STANDING FOR
THE FIRST TIME AND THANK YOU
.
YEAH SO PROP. EIGHT, 03
MACKINLEY IN OUR OCCUPANCY
BUILT IN 1890 IT'S FOUR UNITS
OVER A SHARED BASEMENT.
THERE'S ACCESS FROM EACH OF THE
ABOVE UNITS DOWN TO THE SPACE
IN THE BASEMENT IT'S OPEN TO
TWO UNITS AND THEN A DOOR
BETWEEN THE OTHER TWO UNITS IN
THE BASEMENT LEVEL.
BUT ALL OF THE ACCESS TO IT IS
UNOBSTRUCTED FROM THE UNITS
ABOVE THE STAFF RECOMMENDS
DENYING THIS APPEAL.
THE BUILDING OFFICIAL IS
DETERMINED THAT THIS IS A
CHANGE OF USE.
A PARTIAL CHANGE OF USE WHICH
WOULD REQUIRE COMPLIANCE WITH
CHAPTER TEN OF THE MICHIGAN
REHABILITATION CODE ESSENTIALLY
GOING INTO WHAT THE APPLICANT
PROVIDED IN THEIR APPEAL
SUMMARY IS THAT THEY MENTIONED
THAT AREAS LIKE THIS COULD
NADHMI COULD BE USED FOR THINGS
SUCH AS POOL TABLES, EXERCISE
EQUIPMENT AND THINGS OF THAT
NATURE WHICH WOULD BE
CONSIDERED PART OF AN HOUR
THREE USE IF THAT WAS THE TYPE
OF BUILDING THIS IS AN ORDER TO
USE IN COMMON SPACES AND ARE TO
ARE NOT CONSIDERED IN ORDER TO
USE.
WITH THAT BEING SAID, ANY
CHANGE FROM WHAT WOULD WHAT
LOOKS LIKE NOW WITH THE
ADDITIONAL INFORMATION LOOKS
LIKE A SMALL ASSEMBLY WHICH
WOULD GO TO A BUSINESS USE
WOULD BE A CHANGE OF USE TO THE
R TWO OCCUPANTS THAT'S PROPOSED
IN THE IN THE PERMIT
APPLICATION.
OK, THANK YOU.
NO I CAN COME UP AND PRESENT
YOUR THANK YOU EVERYONE FOR
YOUR TIME TODAY AND IN THE
OPPORTUNITY TO COME BEFORE YOU
AND SPEAK ON THIS CASE.
>> AND AGAIN THANK YOU FOR YOU
KNOW WE'VE HAD MANY
CONVERSATIONS WITH THE BUILDING
OFFICIAL ON THIS ACTUAL APPEAL
AND THE INITIAL RULINGS ON THE
CASE.
>> SO WE REALLY APPRECIATE THE
CONTINUED DIALOG AND TO TRY TO
COME TO A RESOLUTION FOR US.
SO THANK YOU FOR THAT WORK.
WE FEEL LIKE WE'RE REALLY HERE
TO DISCUSS THIS THIS DEFINITION
OF OCCUPANCY TO DATE THIS LOWER
LEVEL WAS AND HAS AND DESCRIBED
TO US AS THREE DIFFERENT USES
FROM THE INITIAL RESPONSE
COMMENTS AND IT REALLY IS I
THINK SOMETHING THAT HAS ALSO
BEEN ACKNOWLEDGED BY THE
BUILDING OFFICIAL, SOMETHING
THAT'S SOMEWHAT AMBIGUOUS AND
HAS BEEN STATED TO US THAT EVEN
WHEN PERTAINING TO RESIDENTIAL
PLACEMENTS THAT THE THE
CODE DOESN'T REFERENCE THIS
EXACT SCENARIO THAT WE'RE
DEALING WITH.
SO WE'VE BEEN TOLD THAT THERE'S
IT'S A STORAGE SPACE ALSO
UTILITY AND NOW IT'S AN
ASSEMBLY SPACE.
>> SO WE'RE REALLY WE FEEL THAT
WITH THE NATURE OF THE BUILDING
WHICH I'LL GET INTO IN JUST A
MINUTE IT'S STILL FALLS
UNDERNEATH THE RESIDENTIAL USE
CATEGORY AND THAT'S WHAT WE
TRIED TO ARGUE IN OUR
COMMENTARY IN OUR APPEALS
APPLICATION.
>> SO JUST TO PROVIDE A LITTLE
BIT MORE INFORMATION ON THE
STRUCTURE ITSELF, IT WAS BUILT
IN 1890.
IT'S A SIDE-BY-SIDE STRUCTURE
FOR UNITS IN TOTAL THE EACH
UNIT YOU KNOW, GOES FROM
ESSENTIALLY FROM FIRST FLOOR UP
TO ROOF.
IT COULD ALMOST BY SOME
STANDARDS BE TOWNHOUSE TYPE BUT
DUE TO THE NATURE AND THE AREA
OF CONSTRUCTION AND CHANGES IN
CODE , IT REALLY DOESN'T FALL
WITHIN THAT TOWNHOUSE CATEGORY
BECAUSE WE CAN'T HAVE THE FULL
FIREWALLS IN BETWEEN.
WE DON'T MEET ANY OF THOSE
INITIAL CATEGORIES AND IT
DOESN'T GO YOU THE FIREWALL
DOESN'T GO FROM FULL STRUCTURE
SLAB FOUNDATION ALL THE WAY TO
ROOF BUT IT HAS VERY MUCH THAT
SIDE BY SIDE IN NATURE IT DOES
SIT ATOP A SHARED BASEMENT THAT
IS IS SUBDIVIDED AND SHARED BY
TWO UNITS.
THERE'S A FIRE MASONRY FIREWALL
THAT'S IN BETWEEN AND THERE WAS
ONE TIME I BELIEVE A DOOR THAT
WAS FULLY CLOSING THAT WAS ALSO
RATED.
SO IT REALLY BRINGS IT BACK
DOWN TO MORE OF A TWO ALMOST A
TWO FAMILY TYPE SITUATION.
OH, THE PROPOSED WORK IS TO
BASICALLY JUST EXTEND THOSE
THOSE WALLS, YOU KNOW,
SUBDIVIDING EACH UNIT TO ADDING
TWO MORE DIVIDING WALLS IN THE
BASEMENT TO SEPARATE INTO FOUR
UNITS AND WE HAVE THE
CONTIGUOUS STAIR THAT'S ALREADY
THERE TO ADD TWO MORE SLEEPING
UNITS IN THE BASEMENT AND A
RAIDEN FURNISHED ENCLOSURE AND
WASHER AND DRYER THOSE THE
WASHER AND DRYER AND FURNACES
ALREADY JUST IN THE BASEMENTS
TODAY.
SO IT'S ALREADY BEING UTILIZED
AS STORAGE TYPE FUNCTION AS A
UTILITY TYPE FUNCTION WE DON'T
KNOW WE CAN MAKE CONJECTURE
THAT IT HAS ALSO BEEN USED AS A
PLACE WHERE THERE MAY BE SOME
ADDITIONAL FEATURES BUT THAT'S
KIND OF CONJECTURE.
>> IT REALLY DOES I THINK SERVE
AS A TRUE MORE RESIDENTIAL TYPE
BASEMENT FEEL THAT YOU WOULD
SEE IN A SINGLE WORD
MULTIFAMILY YOU KNOW, OR TWO
FAMILY TYPE DWELLING WORKS A
BASEMENT THAT SERVICES THAT USE
OF THE RESIDENCE THEMSELVES.
THIS IS SOMETHING THAT WE
REALLY FEEL IS KEY TO THE
INTERPRETATION OF AND AS I
STATED THE THE NEW CONSTRUCTION
WOULD BE WOULD REALLY SERVE TO
EXTEND THOSE UNITS AND REALLY
CREATE THE TRUE SEPARATION
BETWEEN UNITS FROM SLAB UP TO
ROOF TO THE BEST THAT WE CAN
WITHOUT GOING INTO THE WHOLE
TOWNHOME SCENARIO.
THE DESCRIPTION THAT WE
PROVIDED IN THE PACKAGE IN
TERMS OF , YOU KNOW, A
RECREATION SPACE, I THINK IS A
LITTLE BIT MISCONSTRUED IN THE
SENSE THAT THERE IS AGAIN THAT
THIS SPACE IS UTILIZED AS A
UTILITY, IT IS UTILIZED AS
STORAGE, IT COULD BE UTILIZED
AS A LOUNGE TYPE SPACE OR A
RECREATION TYPE USE WHERE THERE
MAY BE SOME EXERCISE EQUIPMENT,
THERE MAY BE SOME POOL TABLES
VERY MUCH LIKE YOU WOULD FIND
IN EXCESS SPACE WITHIN A LOWER
LEVEL OF A HOME.
SO I TO THINK THAT THE THE
CHANGE TO YOU KNOW, THE INITIAL
RESPONSE FROM THE PARENT
COMMENTS WAS THAT THIS IS A
STORAGE IT WASN'T DEFINED TO US
WHETHER OR NOT WHAT THIS
WHETHER OR NOT IT WAS S1 OR AS
TO OUR INITIAL RESPONSE TO OUR
PARENT COMMENTS WAS TO YOU
KNOW, WE REALLY DIDN'T KNOW
WHERE TO GO WITH THE CAMPATH SO
WE LOOKED AT DON'T USE AS AN
EXCEPTION TO THAT AND
INCIDENTAL USE FAIRLY CLEARLY
STATED IN THAT THERE ARE
ANCILLARY ANCILLARY FUNCTIONS
ASSOCIATED WITH A GIVEN
OCCUPANCY THAT GENERALLY POSES
A GREATER LEVEL OF RISK TO THE
OCCUPANCY LIMITED TO THOSE.
AND I THINK THAT THE EXCEPTION
INCIDENTALLY SITS WITHIN
INTERPENETRATING YOU'RE NOT
REQUIRED TO COMPLY WITH THIS
SECTION.
IT ALSO IT ALSO STATES THAT
THERE YOU CAN HAVE INTENTIONAL
USE AND SINGLE OR MIXED USE
OCCUPANCY AND THAT THOSE WOULD
IT DOESN'T STATE YOU KNOW THAT
SAYS SERVING A DWELLING UNIT
THAT THE CODE OFFICE CAME BACK
AND SAID THAT IT'S REALLY MORE
OF A UTILITY SPACE.
>> THE CODE IS NOT REFERENCES
TO EXACT SCENARIO.
HE DID SAY PRIOR TO THAT THAT
HE SHOULD NOT IN THE PAST AND
THE PAST INTERPRETATION IT
INDICATED THE BASEMENT OR
CELLAR WAS STORAGE.
I SHOULD CORRECT THAT STATEMENT
BY MOST OWNERS OR OCCUPANTS
OF USE AT LOWER LEVEL FOR
STORING VARIOUS ITEMS THAT THEY
HAVE IT IS MORE OF A UTILITY
SPACE.
THE CODE IS NOT REFERENCED THIS
EXACT SCENARIO.
SO THAT KIND OF BE OUR OPENING
STATEMENT UPON FURTHER DOWN WE
WHERE YOU DISAGREE WITH THE
DECISION THAT THERE IS A CHANGE
OF USE AS I'VE STATED.
SO WE BEGAN KIND OF THE
DISCUSSIONS ON HOW TO MOVE
FORWARD WITH AN APPEAL.
THIS WAS PART OF OUR DISCUSSION
ABOUT HOW THIS BASEMENT AREA
COULD BE USED OR IS USED AND
AND MULTIPLE OPTIONS AND THE IT
WAS A LITTLE BIT SURPRISING AND
READING THE THE STAFF REPORT
THAT THIS IS NOW BEING
CONSIDERED AND ASSEMBLY TYPE
SPACE BUT DEFAULTING FROM
UNDERNEATH UNDER FIFTY
OCCUPANTS WE'RE NOW IN A
BUSINESS SO WHICH IS
UNDERSTANDING CLEAR DEFINITION
HER CODE .
BUT NOW AGAIN WE'RE IN A THIRD
NEWSGROUP SO WE FEEL LIKE THIS
IS STILL REALLY THERE'S NO
SINGLE DEFINITION THAT APPLIES
TO THIS SPACE AND THAT IT
REALLY IS A SUPPORT FUNCTION
FOR THE RESIDENTS AND SHOULD
REMAIN PART THE RESIDENTIAL USE
FUNCTION.
I JUST WANT TO NOTE THAT I
THINK WE ALSO WHILE WE
SUBMITTED THE APPEAL BASED UPON
THE CONTENT OF THE CODE WAS
CERTAINLY THE INTENT OF THE
CODE OR THE RULES GOVERNING
CONSTRUCTION HAD BEEN
INCORRECTLY INTERPRETED.
>> WE ALSO FEEL THAT THE ONLY
THING THAT'S TRIGGERING THIS
THIS APPEAL FOR US IS THAT THIS
CHANGE IN OCCUPANCY THAT WE
ACTUALLY STILL ALSO MEET THAT
WE'RE PROVIDING AN EQUAL OR
BETTER TYPE OF INSTRUCTION
BASED ON THE ACTUAL NATURE
OF WHAT IS CURRENTLY EXISTING
WITHIN THE STRUCTURE ITSELF.
SO CURRENTLY IT IS OPEN TO
BETWEEN TWO UNITS BECAUSE THE
DOOR IS MISSING.
IT'S OPEN TO FOUR.
BUT WE'RE REALLY WE ARE MAKING
THIS A MUCH SAFER CONDITION BY
INSTALLING THE DEMISE IN WALLS
BETWEEN THE UNITS THAT WE'RE
PROVIDING EGRESS FROM THE TWO
BEDROOMS DIRECTLY OUT THE
FURNACES ARE GOING TO BE
LOCATED AND RATED ENCLOSURES.
SO WE'RE ACTUALLY MAKING ANY
CHANCE OF SPREAD OF ANY KIND
OF FIRE.
SMOKE IS REALLY LIMITED TO
WITHIN THE DWELLING UNIT ITSELF
WHICH IS MUCH BETTER THAN WHAT
THE CURRENT CONDITION PROVIDES
US.
THERE IS NONE AND I'LL JUST
REITERATE THAT EACH UNIT HAS A
STAIRCASE THAT IS LEADING DOWN.
WE'RE NOT MODIFYING THE STAIR
AT ALL OR JUST CLOSING MAKING
SURE IT'S MAINTAINED IN THE
UNITS THEMSELVES.
I THINK WITH THAT NOW I THINK
I'VE SAID OK WHEN WE SAY THANK
YOU FOR SUMMARY THEY'RE VERY
,
VERY GOOD.
CAN I JUST ADD A COUPLE
OF THINGS?
I THINK THAT WHEN WE LOOK AT
THE BETTER EQUIVALENT OR BETTER
THAN CODE IT'S NOT LOOKING AT
IT IS WHAT IT IS RIGHT.
IT'S LOOKING AT IT AS WHAT THE
CODE REQUIREMENTS ARE AND THAT
THEY'RE PRESENTING SOMETHING
EQUALLY.
WHAT IT COMES DOWN TO IS
SUPPRESSION SYSTEM OR SPRINKLER
SYSTEM THAT WOULD BE REQUIRED
IN THAT AREA NOT THE WHOLE
BUILDING BUT THE AREA THAT'S
BEING REMODELED OR IN THE AREA
WITH THE CHANGE OF USE.
I JUST WANTED TO ADVOCATE FOR
THAT AND REALIZE THAT'S A BIG
AND YEAH, BECAUSE WE DIDN'T
DIDN'T COME OUT IN THE PACKET.
YEAH IT'S I THINK IT'S LOADED
IN THE VERY BEGINNING IT'S
MENTIONED BRIEFLY BUT YES THAT
IS THAT IS THE MAIN REASON FOR
STATE THAT THE CHANGE OF FUZE
TRIGGERS THE REQUIREMENT FOR A
SUPPRESSION SYSTEM WHICH WE
FEEL IS QUITE AN UNDERTAKING TO
ADD EIGHT BEDROOMS.
THIS COULD BE A PRESIDENTIAL
LEVEL OUR THIRTEEN SYSTEM OR
BROKEN SYSTEM TRIGGER FOR THIS
KIND OF USE.
I BELIEVE WE WOULD BE IN OUR
THIRTEEN FROM WHAT WE WOULD BE
AFTER.
I MEAN THERE WAS THE MORE
AFFORDABLE SYSTEMS VERSUS THE
YES IT WOULDN'T BE A FORM
OF A13 SYSTEM OF ENERGY OR
WHATEVER A 13 HOUR SYSTEM WHICH
IS RESIDENTIALLY OK.
ALL RIGHT.
AND I BELIEVE WE ARE LOOKING
INTO WHAT THAT THAT COULD
ENTAIL.
BUT THERE'S STILL YOU KNOW, WE
NEED TO LOOK AT THE INCOMING
SERVICES IF THERE'S EVEN AN
EXISTING HAPPENED.
IF THAT WAS SO IT COULD BE
QUITE AN EXTENSIVE UNDERTAKING
PER YOUR PICK OF THE INTENT IS
TO MAKE THOSE B BEDROOMS THE
BASEMENT, CORRECT?
>> CORRECT.
SO THERE'D BE TWO BEDROOMS AND
MEET WITH UNITS.
WE'D BE ADDING TWO BEDROOMS TO
THE EXISTING EACH EXISTING UNIT
ALONG WITH FURNACES WOULDN'T BE
MAINTAINED WITHIN UNIT IN THE
BASEMENT AND A RATED CLOSET AND
THEN THERE WOULD BE A WASHER
DRYER IN EACH UNIT AS ONE AND
YOU'RE HAVING TO PUT IN MEANS
OF EGRESS.
EACH BEDROOM HAS A MEANS
OF EGRESS SO WILL BE AN EGRESS
WINDOW IN HIS BEDROOM LOCATED
WHICH THERE'S CURRENTLY ONLY
MEANS CURRENTLY FROM THE THE
BASEMENT IS BACK UP THROUGH THE
STAIR AND I THINK ONE THERE'S
ONE EXTERIOR THERE WITHIN ON
THE IN THE BASEMENT ITSELF SO
CURRENT SO WHEN THE NEW SCHEME
ANY INDIVIDUAL UNIT WITHIN THE
BEDROOMS WOULD HAVE THE MEANS
OUT BUT THEY ALSO MEET THE
REQUIREMENTS OF UNDERNEATH THE
SEVENTY FIVE FOOT EGRESS UP TO
THE EXTERIOR
.
SO THIS IS A THREE STOREY
BUILDING, A FOUR STORY
BUILDING.
THERE'S ACTUALLY TWO AND A HALF
YEAH.
>> SO IT DOES HAVE A THIRD
STORY BUT THE CEILINGS ARE
PRETTY LOW SO THERE ARE I THINK
THERE'S ONE BEDROOM UP THERE.
>> OK SO YOU'RE OCCUPIED.
YEAH YEAH THAT IS CONSIDERED
TWO AND A HALF STOREY SO A
LITTLE BIT A LITTLE BIT MORE
INFORMATION SEEMS TO BE COMING
OUT WITH EACH RIGHT.
SO WHAT THE TOP THREE TOP FLOOR
REGARDLESS OF THE CEILING
HEIGHT IT IS BEING USED AS A
BEDROOM I BELIEVE SO IS CORRECT
AND I THINK THAT THAT'S
SOMETHING THAT THE OUR SCOPE
OF WORK REALLY ONLY ENTAILS THE
BASEMENT
AND YOU KNOW THAT IN
PREVIOUS INSPECTION REPORTS THE
THAT HAS BEEN CITED A COUPLE
OF TIMES WHERE I THINK THERE'S
HABITABLE SPACE UP THERE BUT
IT'S BEING QUESTIONABLE BECAUSE
THE CEILING IS QUITE LOW AND I
DON'T KNOW I KNOW THAT THERE
WAS UM ATTEMPTS I THINK TO
RAISE THAT STRUCTURE.
>> BUT HAS THERE HAVE BEEN
APPEALS GRANTED THAT THEY
DIDN'T HAVE TO BECAUSE IT'S
QUITE AN EXTENSIVE UNDERTAKING.
>> JUST LET ME MAYBE FINISH BUT
IT MAY NOT BE HARIBO GAVE ME
HABITABLE.
RIGHT.
WHICH IS I THINK THE TWO AND A
HALF STOREY YEAH.
YEAH.
WHERE THAT DEFINITION.
WELL I MEAN EVEN THOUGH IT'S
NOT PART OF THE SCOPE OF WORK
IN MY MIND THAT'S REALLY THAT'S
THAT'S KIND OF RELEVANT BECAUSE
IF THOSE TOUGH IF THE TOP
FLOORS ARE BEING USED AS A
BEDROOM THAT MEANS THAT I MEAN
IT'S A LITTLE HARD TO FOLLOW
THE WHOLE STAIRCASE SCENARIO
HERE.
IT LOOKS LIKE THEY'RE THERE ARE
INTERNAL STAIRCASES AND THEY'RE
ALSO STAIRCASES THAT ARE
ESSENTIALLY FIRE ESCAPES AND
THERE ARE FIRES.
BUT BUT ONE OF THE MAIN WAYS TO
GET TO THE BEDROOMS ON THE VERY
TOP FLOOR ARE THROUGH ANOTHER
BEDROOM ON THE FLOOR BELOW
RIGHT.
WHICH I BELIEVE IS THAT IS THAT
IS ONE THING I BELIEVE HAS BEEN
CITED BY INSPECTION INSPECTORS
IN THE PAST SO ON.
>> BUT THERE'S REALLY NO WAY TO
CONTROL THIS SUITE.
I GUESS YOU GUYS ARE USING IT
AS A BEDROOM OF A BEDROOM
BEDROOM WOULD BE CONVERTED INTO
A SINGLE DESK.
YEAH, YEAH.
I THINK WHAT I WOULD EXPECT FOR
A LARGE TYPE AND WHAT WAS A
CONSTRUCTION TYPE IS A FIVE
YEAR FIVE EIGHTY FIVE FEET.
SO THERE'S THE SEPARATION
BETWEEN UNITS IS REALLY
WHATEVER IT WAS IT WAS BUILT IN
THE 20S.
RIGHT.
>> AND THE EQUIVALENT OF ONE
AL-ANSARI.
YEAH YEAH.
IS YOUR INDICATION OF HARD WORK
AND SMOKE DETECTION SYSTEM NOW
IS THERE ANY PARTICULAR LEVELS
AS FAR AS I DON'T BELIEVE THERE
IS ANY ANTI RIGHT THERE IS NOT
CURRENTLY BUT WITH THE
RENOVATION WORK THERE WE WILL
BE INCLUDING THOSE I KNOW FOR
SURE IN YOUR NETWORK FOR THE
NEW AND THE EXISTING WILL BE
COMPLIANT WITH THE AH TO USE
GROUP ALREADY DENHA BUILDING WI
FIRE ALARM SYSTEM ARE YOU DON'T
WANT TO SEPARATE EACH ONE
SEPARATELY SO ONE WENT OFF IT
WENT ALL FOUR OFF THE LEVEL
OF A SYSTEM THERE YOU HAVE TO
COLLECTIVE YOU NEED TO BE
CONNECTED BETWEEN UNITS OR NO
CONNECTED TO THAT BETWEEN UNITS
AND CONNECTED.
WELL I'VE HAD BOTH WAYS YOU
KNOW IN A CASE LIKE THIS
ESPECIALLY SINCE THIS IS
STARTING TO APPROACH TOWNHOUSE
DEVELOPMENT, IT DOESN'T HAVE
THE TRUE SEPARATION BETWEEN
FIREWALLS, DOESN'T HAVE THE
FIREWALLS I WOULD SEE YOU ALL
KNOW WELL I THE WALL BUT YOU
WILL RELISTED BESIDE MAY BE
HAVING NINETY FIVE.
YEAH YEAH.
I DON'T THINK IT WILL BE SO
UNREASONABLE TO HAVE IT I FULLY
GOT THE TO GET IT CONNECTED.
YEAH I MEAN ACROSS YEAH YEAH
THERE THERE'S A PROBLEM BECAUSE
OFTEN PEOPLE USE A FALSE ALARM
SO I DON'T KNOW WHAT THEY'D
RECOMMEND THERE.
THERE'S A LOT IN OF SEVENTY TWO
TO TAKE INTO CONSIDERATION THAT
YOU KNOW THE MEANING MEANING
THE TYPE INSTRUCTION HOW MUCH
IS THERE AND HOW I MEAN YOU CAN
LOOK AT SOME OF THE THINGS YOU
CAN HAVE FLAWS THAT ARE
ACTIVATED DIFFERENTLY TO THE
TOP FLOOR FOR BELOW YOU NOT THE
WHOLE BUILDING.
I WOULD ACTUALLY HAVE TO LOOK
INTO THE CODE BOOK TO GIVE A
TRUE COMMENT ON THAT.
I MEAN AT THAT POINT THE SYSTEM
IS SO COMPLICATED IT MAY BE
EASIER TO SPRINKLE BUT IT'S NOT
MORE THAN JUST A PRESIDENTIAL
INTERCONNECTED FOUR OR FIVE YOU
KNOW, ALARM AND THERE'S NO
SEPARATION THROUGH FIRE
SEPARATION IN THERE.
SO I WOULD PROBABLY LOOK AT IF
IT WAS A FIRE ALARM SYSTEM
THERE WOULD BE A CONNECTED
SYSTEM.
SO USING THE ATTIC SPACE THIRD
FLOOR SPACE AS A BEDROOM RIGHT
NOW YOU'RE TALKING ONE, TWO,
THREE, FOUR, FIVE, SIX BEDROOMS
AND THE HOME AND IF I GUESS HOW
DOES IT HAVE TO FALL UNDER THE
PARENTAL LIKE HAVING PEOPLE IN
THE IN THE UNCLASSIFIED
BEDROOM?
YOU KNOW, I KNOW THAT THERE'S
CODES THAT THEY HAVE TO ME FOR
HOUSING PROJECTS.
YEAH.
AND STUFF LIKE THAT EVERY
SINGLE WEEK.
BUT HAVING HAVING PEOPLE IN AN
AREA BECAUSE I MEAN IN THE
BASEMENT WHAT'S THE DIFFERENCE
AND THEM VERY CAUGHT IN THE
MIDDLE HERE IN THE CORNER
OF THE WALL AND HAVING THEM
JUST HAVE PEOPLE IN THE
BASEMENT RIGHT NOW YOU HAVE ALL
THREE.
YEAH AND THAT'S ALL THEY'RE
ASKING FOR IT NOW BUT LIKE I
FEEL LIKE THERE'S A LOT MORE TO
THIS SCENARIO AS IT UNFOLDS
THEN TRUST BUILDING SOME
FIREWALLS IN THE BASEMENT FOR
SEPARATION ISSUES.
I FEEL LIKE THERE'S A FEW
DIFFERENT CODE VIOLATIONS THAT
ARE HAPPENING THAN JUST THE
BASEMENT ISSUE, ESPECIALLY
HAVING TO GO THROUGH A BEDROOM
TO GET OUT OF AN OCCUPIED SPACE
.
>> YOU KNOW.
>> YEAH, IT JUST SEEMS LIKE A
LOT UNFOLDED THROUGHOUT THE
CONVERSATION.
THAT'S WHAT'S REALLY HERE.
I THINK ONE OF THE ISSUES IS
THE FACT THAT THE BUILDING IS
GETTING MUCH MORE DENSE AND
MUCH MORE BURDENED WITH WITH
OCCUPY SPACE AND WHAT THE WHAT
YOU'RE PROPOSING TO DO IN THE
BASEMENT.
IT ISN'T REALLY AN EQUAL OR
BETTER CONSTRUCT.
IT'S WHAT YOU HAVE TO DO
REGARDLESS OF WHAT I'VE YOU
JUST HAVE TO DO IT BECAUSE
THAT'S THE CODE REQUIREMENT IS
NOT YOU'RE NOT GIVING MORE BACK
INTO THE BUILDING TO MAKE NO
MONEY BEYOND ALSO APPRECIATING
THAT BY ADDING THE SEPARATION
WALLS THAT THAT'S A MINIMAL
REQUIREMENT IS THAT WHAT DO YOU
WANT MY CODE ?
YEAH.
I MEAN ANYTHING THAT YOU'RE
DOING TO MAKE THE LOWER LEVEL
SPACE HABITABLE
WITH THE WINDOW
WELLS AND AND THE BATHROOMS AND
THE VENTILATION AND ALL
OF THAT, YOU HAVE TO DO IT NO
MATTER WHAT CIVIL PROCEDURE
WOULDN'T YOU WANT TO BE
REQUIRED AS PART OF A PROJECT?
I FEEL LIKE IF IT WAS A YOU ALL
OF US SUDDEN CEILING IF THERE
WAS A THREE HOUR SEPARATION, IF
THERE WAS A REBUILT OF THE
STAIRS, IF THERE WAS A LITTLE
BIT MORE TO MAKE, IT ACTUALLY
MAKES SENSE TO SAY IT'S ABOVE
AND BEYOND A MATTER WHAT IN THE
CODE YOU HAVE TO HAVE A ONE
HOUR FIRE SEPARATION RIGHT
BETWEEN EACH THING SO THAT'S
NOT MAKING ANYTHING BETTER.
>> WELL I WOULD SAY EXISTING
THERE IS NOTHING IT'S JUST A
HOW ANOTHER OPEN TO THE UNITS
ABOVE SO ANYTHING COULD HAPPEN
IN THE BASEMENT AND TRANSFERRED
TO THE ADJACENT UNIT SO THAT
WOULD BE YES.
THERE'S A CLEAR SEPARATION AND
EITHER BETWEEN UNIT AND THE AND
THE DEMISE INVOLVED OR LIKE
YOU'RE SUGGESTING WE'RE RAIDING
THE UNDERSIDE OF THE FLOOR
SYSTEM ITSELF TO CREATE A TRUE
ALMOST A CLEMENTINE'S AREA.
ARE YOU GUYS DOING ANYTHING
WITH THE CEILING OR NOT?
IT LOOKS LIKE JUST WOOD.
>> IT'LL BE ENCASED IN FIVE
EIGHTHS OF BUT THAT WOULD BE
AGAIN OUR STRUCTURE, OUR DEMISE
AND WALLS ARE GOING RIGHT UP TO
THE UNDERSIDE OF EXISTING
STRUCTURE TO BE BEAMS AND THEN
THOSE ARE BEING DROPPED AND
YEAH IT CONSTRUCTION AS WELL.
SO WE'LL HAVE A CONTINUITY FROM
SLAB UP TO BETWEEN EACH UNIT
AND OUR DEMISE IN WALLS ARE
GOING TO BE IN ALIGNMENT WITH
THE DEMISE OF ABOVE.
SO WE'RE REALLY CARRYING THAT
VERTICAL SPACE ALL THE WAY
DOWN.
>> YOU QUICKLY ARE YOU SAYING
THAT BY ADDING TWO BEDROOMS IN
THE BASEMENT THEY COULDN'T
OCCUPY THE THIRD FLOOR?
>> WELL, I BETTER BE IN OVER
THE YEARS WE'RE GOING TO A FIRE
ESCAPE.
YOU KNOW, IF THEY'D BE WILLING
TO.
BUT I DON'T I DON'T THINK I
DON'T THINK ANYBODY I IN ALL
PRACTICALITY ANYBODY REALLY HAS
ANY CONTROL OF WHAT HAPPENS IN
THAT TOP FLOOR OR ANYWHERE I
MEAN OR ANYWHERE IN THE
BUILDING INSPECTION DAY.
YEAH.
AND I MEAN ONE OF THE THING
THAT'S A LITTLE BIT QUIRKY
ABOUT THIS IS THAT THE PRIMARY
ENTRANCE TO THE BACK TO THE
BASEMENT UNITS IS THROUGH THE
KITCHEN WHICH IS PROBABLY ONE
OF THE HIGHEST HAZARD AREAS IN
THE BUILDING.
FROM THE PHOTOGRAPHS IT LOOKS
LIKE IT'S A REALLY TIGHT
SQUEEZE
.
I MEAN MAYBE THE CUT TO THE
CHASE WANT TO CUT OFF THE
CONVERSATION OR ANYTHING, BUT
WOULD YOU GUYS BE AMENABLE TO
THE SUPPRESSION SYSTEM AND AN
INTERCONNECTED FIRE ALARM
SYSTEM PART OF THE APPEAL
APPROVAL FOR THE APPEAL?
WELL, I YOU THAT POINT RIGHT.
WE WOULD HAVE TO ASK IF THE IF
THE BOARD DENIES OUR APPEAL
THEN WE'RE ALREADY WITHIN A
SUPPRESSION SYSTEM SO THAT I
THINK THE SUPPRESSION SYSTEM IS
THE MAIN POINT OF OUR OF THE
REASON FOR OUR APPEAL.
THERE'S MAY BENEFIT.
RIGHT.
WE WILL BE INSTALLING THE
DINNER FIRE AND SMOKE ALARM
SYSTEM AS REQUIRED PER
CODE INTERCONNECTION I BELIEVE
IS ONE OF THE REQUIREMENTS THAT
WE HAVE TO MEET.
THERE ARE EXCEPTIONS BUT THOSE
ALL INVOLVE SUPPRESSION AS WELL
FROM MY INITIAL READING
YOURGRAU ONE LINE SIZES THAT
LIMITS THE VARIABLE IF YOU CAN
SUPPRESS A BUILDING OR NOT
YOU'VE GOT A HALF INCH OR FOUR
CORNERS YOUR WAISTLINE AND THEN
OF OUR SYSTEM YOU WOULD BE
PULLING A SEPARATE FIRE.
YOU COULDN'T COME OFF DOMESTIC
WATER SO THEY WOULD HAVE TO YOU
HAVE TO DO ANYTHING.
YEAH.
SO THERE IS A NEED BUT THIS
WOULD NOT BE A ONE INTO FAMILY
DWELLINGS WOULD IT BE A 13 HOUR
SYSTEM.
IT DOES REQUIRE A SINGLE AFDC
ON IT.
IT DOES REQUIRE IT'S SO FINALLY
WATER SUPPLY THE MOST EXPENSE
RIGHT THERE IN THE STREET WOULD
BE TO TAP INTO THE WATER TO BUT
AGAIN IT ONLY APPLIES TO THE
BASEMENT IF THE AND THE
BEDROOMS AND THE SYSTEM I MEAN
YOU CAN JUST BE A LITTLE HOUSE
BY THE TIME YOU EVERYWHERE AND
STILL YOU'RE STILL AT AN
EXPENSE TO DO THE ENTIRE
BUILDING.
BUT YES.
YEAH, YES YOU COULD YEAH.
BUT I BELIEVE IT'S ONLY
REQUIRED IN THE AREA OF BUT IT
IS IT IS QUITE AN UNDERTAKING.
I KNOW THAT THE FEES ALONE ARE
GOING TO BE QUITE EXPENSIVE
AGAIN THAT'S IT'S A SMALL
FORTUNE TO PURCHASE PROPERTY.
IT IS INTENDED TO BE REVENUE
GENERATING.
WE ARE TRYING TO IMPROVE THE
EXISTING CONDITION AS WELL AS
YOU KNOW ADD SOME ADDITIONAL
BEDROOMS THAT CAN CAPTURE SOME
OF THAT THAT REVENUE GENERATION
.
HOWEVER, IT'S IT'S EIGHT
BEDROOMS AND THAT THE ADDING
SUPPRESSION SYSTEM IS QUITE A
BIT OF AN UNDERTAKING WITHIN
THAT KIND OF CONSIDERATION.
SORRY, CAN FIREWALL'S BE IN A
NEW ALL LISTINGS SUPERSEDE THE
FIRE SUPPRESSION MARRIAGE BEING
EQUIVALENT TO YOUR PROBABLY
COULD BUT I MEAN I THINK THE
NEXT STEP WITH US WOULD BE
PROTECTION WOULD BE DIFFERENT A
LITTLE ALARM SYSTEM MAYBE MORE
AFFORDABLE IN THE WORLD AND
THAT'S WHAT'S GOING TO DRIVE
NOTIFICATION.
I'M GOING TO GUESS WE ARE
SMOKED OUT FROM SIDE TO SIDE SO
YOU WON'T GET SMOKE FROM ONE TO
THE ONE IN THE NEXT.
BUT IT CAME ALL THROUGH, YOU
KNOW, I MEAN TO HAVE A FEW YOU
ALREADY HAD ONE OUR TESTING
SYSTEM.
BUT WHAT IF IT'S LIKE A THREE
HOUR SYSTEM NEED TO BE REPAIRED
ALL THE PLASTER OFF THE WALLS,
ALL THE IN THE PARTITION WALLS
ALL THE WAY UP.
YEAH.
AND WE GO THROUGH THE ROOF, YOU
KNOW, SO IS THERE ANOTHER
ALTERNATIVE FOR THEM TO AND I
DON'T I I'VE BEEN AWAY FROM
THAT PORTION OF THE CODE BUT
ISN'T THERE ISN'T THERE
PROVISION WITHIN AN EXISTING
BUILDING THAT YOU CAN ACTUALLY
READ OR CREATE A SPREADSHEET
OF EQUIVALENCY AS PART OF THE
CHOUKRI?
YEAH YEAH BUT BUT JUST TO SEE
THE BUILDING A FOUR POINT
SYSTEM YEAH YEAH YEAH.
>> DOES THAT HAVE ANY
APPLICATION FOR THIS TRADE
THOUGH.
WE BASICALLY I MEAN WE'RE YOU
TO VARIOUS WE WENT THROUGH THAT
PROCESS OF MAKING A POINT WELL
I'M ASKING YEAH.
>> DID YOU LOOK INTO REHAB.
WE HAVE NOT RUN THE
CALCULATIONS I BELIEVE THERE
THERE'S COMPARTMENTALIZATION OR
COMPARTMENTALIZATION THAT WOULD
BE REQUIRED FOR THAT AND I KNOW
WE'VE DONE IT ON A COUPLE
OF OTHER PROJECTS.
IT'S QUITE AN EXTENSIVE, MOST
IMPRESSIVE SENTENCE IF I GIVE
YOU A SPRINKEL RIGHT, THERE IS
A HUGE REQUIREMENT FOR
SPRINGLIKE.
YEAH.
YES.
WE'RE FAMILIAR WITH THE THAT
CHAPTER.
>> ARE YOU SAYING THAT WE WOULD
IF WE WENT THROUGH THAT CHAPTER
14 WOULD WE STILL PUT A APPEAL
STILL BE REQUIRED OR WOULD THAT
BE ALL THE POINTS RIGHT.
YOU KNOW, YOU COULD SAY I'M
DOING SOMETHING ELSE AND I
DON'T KNOW IF CHAPTER TEN TAKES
EITHER CHANGE IN USE.
I DON'T KNOW THAT I DON'T KNOW
IF IT I MEAN I'D HAVE TO LOOK
TO SEE IF THERE'S A WAY TO THAT
FURTHER DISTRESS.
MY RECOLLECTION OF IT IS THAT
CHAPTER FOURTEEN KEEPS YOU OUT
OF THE CHANGE OF VIEWS.
BUT AGAIN I'M NOT I DON'T HAVE
TO GO BACK.
I SAID YEAH, IT'S ONLY BEEN
FLYING ONCE OR TWICE BUT I'M
FAMILIAR WITH REGARDING THE
CHANGING USE THING I MEAN IT'S
PROBABLY ALWAYS BEEN USED THE
WAY IT IS.
IT'S AN ACCESSORY TO THE REST
OF THE HOUSE.
>> SO AS YOU KNOW IT'S BECAUSE
IT FINISHES ANY PARTICULAR USE
ALWAYS UNFINISHED.
YEAH.
SO IT'S AND CONSTANTLY YOU
KNOW, AND THEY BUILD WALLS AND
NO REASON TO SEPARATE THAT
WOULD IMPROVE THE SEPARATION
DOWN THERE PROBABLY.
>> SO YOU KNOW I MEAN IT SEEMS
LIKE IT DOESN'T MAKE SENSE TO
ME AND IT SEEMS LIKE INCIDENTAL
EXCESS REUSE IT'S GOT
MECHANICAL STUFF DOWN THERE AND
MORE USED UP DOWN THERE.
I MEAN IT'S A LOT AND WE ALL
SHARED ONE UNIT NOW WITH EACH
OTHER ON LAUNDRY.
>> I BELIEVE THEIR SHARE OK SO
THEY MEAN SO THEY MAY HAVE TO
BUILD A UNIT.
THERE'S SOME SHARING SOME
SHARING BETWEEN UNITS THERE.
>> WHAT IS ARISING OUT OF THE
STAIRWAYS THAT CURRENTLY
COMPLIANT?
>> I BELIEVE SO YEAH.
I THINK RIGHT OF THE EIGHT AND
A QUARTER MAX WE'RE NOT DOING
ANY KIND OF ALTERATION THERE.
WE'RE KEEPING THOSE IN PLACE SO
POSSIBLY COMPLIANT FOR CODE OF
THE TIME WOULD NOT BE COMPLIANT
WITH WHICHEVER ENGINE YOU THINK
IS YOU'RE SAYING IT WOULD
TRIGGER MORE OF 7-ELEVEN OR
SOMETHING YOU KNOW SO SUCH
THERE'S THERE'S I'D HAVE TO
LOOK AT IT.
THERE'S AN EXCEPTION FOR
STAIRWAY'S WITHIN RESIDENTIAL.
YEAH YEAH YEAH.
SO I MEAN CERTAINLY A UNIT OR
SOMETHING.
>> YEAH I'D HAVE TO LOOK AND
SEE WHAT THAT STATE IS.
YEAH.
MAYBE EIGHT TEN OR SOMETHING
LIKE THAT OR EIGHTY EIGHT IT'S
EIGHT AND A QUARTER BY TEN
BECAUSE THE MAX BORDERS AND
THAT'S RIGHT YEAH.
SO ONCE AGAIN IF IF THE IF THE
FOUR UNITS CAN CONTINUE
VERTICALLY FROM TOP TO BOTTOM
AND THEY'RE EACH SEPARATED THAT
THE LOWER LEVEL OF EACH
OF THOSE UNITS COULDN'T BE FED
OFF A RESIDENTIAL SUPPRESSION
ARRANGEMENT NOT FOR A 13 HOUR
SYSTEM SPECIFICALLY IN THE NFPA
CODE FOR THAT SYSTEM IT HAS TO
HAVE ITS OWN LEAD TO VACANT.
>> THE WHOLE BUILDING CAN BE
SUPPRESSED IF IF MAKING SURE I
FOLLOW YOU DIRECTLY YOU DON'T
NEED FOUR SEPARATE NEEDS COMING
IN MAYBE ONE LEAD TO THE
BUILDING BUT FOR A THIRTEEN
ARTOSIS IT HAS TO HAVE ITS OWN
FIRE.
YOU CAN'T BE OPTIMISTIC WHAT
YOU SHARE WITH THE FINISHING
BUT I GUESS THAT'S MY QUESTION
ONCE ONCE YOU COMPARTMENTALIZE
EACH OF THOSE UNITS BUILDING SO
BUILDING WIDE SYSTEMS VERY SAME
BUILDING WHAT STILL A BUILDING
LIKE SYSTEM THAT YOU EACH CAN
EACH SEGMENT CAN WORK OFF THE
DOMESTIC WATER.
NO, NO JUST THE THING THEY
DON'T YOU DON'T WANT TO SHARE
THE DOMESTIC OR THE REASON YOU
GET SHUT OFF IS THAT WHY YOU
CAN'T SHARE WITH THE OTHER ONE?
>> IT'S IT'S IT'S THE THE
SOURCES OF SHOP.
IT'S ALSO BASED OFF THE WATER
SUPPLY THAT IT HAS TO HAVE
A
DEDICATED WATER SUPPLY ITSELF
AND NOT OFF DOMESTIC.
YEAH.
WHAT'S THE DIFFERENCE BETWEEN A
13 OUT OF 13 SYSTEM WORKING
BECAUSE YOU'RE ONE IN TWO
FAMILY DWELLINGS THAT COMES OFF
DOMESTIC WATER.
THEY'RE GOING TO USE OTHER
DENHA SYSTEM THERE YOU'LL SEE
THAT.
YEAH.
WHAT'S THE RISK OF ER YOU KNOW
BY DEFINITION NO BY DEFINITION
IT'S ONE IN TWO FAMILY
DWELLINGS YEAH.
SO THIRTEEN YEARS ONE FAMILY
COMPANY
READ MY MIND AS I SAID
BEFORE I THINK MY SENSES
OF CHANGE AND USES A LITTLE BIT
OF A GRAY AREA JUST BECAUSE YOU
HAVEN'T BEEN DEFINED AS A
PARTICULAR USE DOWN THERE IT'S
UNFINISHED YOU KNOW SO I MEAN
YOU LOOK AT HOLISTIC WHAT'S THE
BEST THING AS FAR AS SAFETY IN
THE BUILDING PROBABLY
SPRINKLING WOULD BE THE HIGHEST
WOULD BE THE BEST AND YOU IF
THAT'S A VERY LOW PROBABLY ARMY
MAY OR MAY NOT WANT TO CROSS
NEEDS PROBABLY DON'T DO
ANYTHING I DON'T KNOW.
>> I MEAN THAT'S PRETTY GOOD.
I'M GOING TO GET IT IS VERY
EXPENSIVE.
I THINK THAT'S AGAIN THERE YOU
KNOW.
YEAH IT IS A GRAY AREA THAT I
THINK THAT'S WHAT I WANT TO
EMPHASIZE IS THAT THE USE HAS
BEEN IN IT'S BEEN CLASSIFIED IN
MULTIPLE WAYS AND IT IS REALLY
TRICKY I THINK TO TO ASSIGN ONE
OH YEAH.
WHATEVER IT IS CLEARLY YOU'RE
SERVING THE RESIDENTS SO YEAH.
>> BUT NOW THAT YOU'RE TOUCHING
IT AND NOW YOU HAVE TO CLASSIFY
THAT'S WHERE YOU HAVE TO GO BY
THAT CLASSIFY HAITIAN AND I
THINK IT'S NOT A CLASSIFICATION
BECAUSE IT'S BEEN STORAGE
UTILITY AND THAT WAS SO YOU TO
REALLY GET INTO THIS RIGHT.
YEAH RIGHT.
BUT IT DOES SEEM AS THOUGH
BASICALLY THAT'S WHAT WE'RE
TRYING TO SAVE IS A BOTTLE
OF YEAH.
>> IT'S THERE'S NO
CLASSIFICATION ABOUT WHAT IT IS
IT'S BEING CHANGED I GUESS IF
YOU REFUSE YOUR BASED IN A
SINGLE FAMILY ENTERTAINMENT
USING THAT'S RESIDENTIAL
PROGRAM AND I THINK THAT THAT'S
WHAT I THINK THAT THERE'S AN
ARGUMENT SORT OF LEANING TOWARD
RESIDENTIAL CODE REQUIREMENTS
AND THIS IS CLEARLY A
COMMERCIAL BUILDING CODE .
YEAH.
BECAUSE OF MULTIPLE USE.
THAT'S WHERE THE ESPECIALLY
YEAH.
SINCE NOW YOU'RE PUTTING LIFE
THAT'S WHERE THE ESPECIALLY
SAFETY DOWN AND YOU'RE GOING TO
SINCE NOW YOU'RE PUTTING LIFE
HAVE PEOPLE SLEEPING DOWN THERE
SAFETY DOWN AND YOU'RE GOING TO
AND THAT JUST BECAUSE YOU'RE
HAVE PEOPLE SLEEPING DOWN THERE
CHANGING IT TO THAT THAT'S
AND THAT JUST BECAUSE YOU'RE
WHERE THE STICK SO UNFORTUNATE
CHANGING IT TO THAT THAT'S
SITUATION HERE IT'S NOT BAD
WHERE THE STICK SO UNFORTUNATE
PLAN AND ALL IF I WAS MINE I'D
SITUATION HERE IT'S NOT BAD
PROBABLY WANT TO DIVIDE IT TO
PLAN AND ALL IF I WAS MINE I'D
CAPITALIZE ON THIS POSITION
PROBABLY WANT TO DIVIDE IT TO
WHICH COULD BUT NOW THAT I
CAPITALIZE ON THIS POSITION
THINK IT'S A LITTLE MORE THAN
WHICH COULD BUT NOW THAT I
JUST A CHANGE OF OCCUPANCY, I
THINK IT'S A LITTLE MORE THAN
THINK IT'S THE FACT THAT THE
JUST A CHANGE OF OCCUPANCY, I
BUILDING IS TO USE THE WORD
THINK IT'S THE FACT THAT THE
BURDENED IS THE INTENSITY
BUILDING IS TO USE THE WORD
OF USE HAS INCREASED
BURDENED IS THE INTENSITY
DRAMATICALLY, YOU KNOW, AND AS
OF USE HAS INCREASED
FAR AS HISTORICAL
DRAMATICALLY, YOU KNOW, AND AS
CLASSIFICATIONS, I MEAN
FAR AS HISTORICAL
HISTORICALLY BACK IN THE DAY IT
CLASSIFICATIONS, I MEAN
WAS JUST A RESIDENTIAL USE
HISTORICALLY BACK IN THE DAY IT
PERIOD.
WAS JUST A RESIDENTIAL USE
SO AT SOME POINT WITH THIS
PERIOD.
RENOVATION THE WHOLE THING HAD
SO AT SOME POINT WITH THIS
TO BE CLASSIFIED OCCURRENCES
RENOVATION THE WHOLE THING HAD
ACCORDING TO SOME FORM
TO BE CLASSIFIED OCCURRENCES
OF CURRENT CODE .
ACCORDING TO SOME FORM
SO THE TOP BECAME ARE TWO AND
OF CURRENT CODE .
THE BOTTOM PIECE HAD TO GET
SO THE TOP BECAME ARE TWO AND
SOMETHING RIGHT BUT IT WASN'T
THE BOTTOM PIECE HAD TO GET
OUR TO SO I JUST WANT TO MAKE
SOMETHING RIGHT BUT IT WASN'T
SURE I UNDERSTAND IN TERMS
OUR TO SO I JUST WANT TO MAKE
OF WHEN WE VOTE ON THIS IF IF
SURE I UNDERSTAND IN TERMS
THE APPEAL WAS DENIED THEY HAVE
OF WHEN WE VOTE ON THIS IF IF
TO SUPPRESS THE LOWER LEVEL
THE APPEAL WAS DENIED THEY HAVE
JUST THE LOWER LEVEL.
TO SUPPRESS THE LOWER LEVEL
CORRECT.
JUST THE LOWER LEVEL.
THE AREA THAT'S BEING OK OR DO
CORRECT.
WE HAVE TO DO THAT NO MATTER
THE AREA THAT'S BEING OK OR DO
WHAT?
WE HAVE TO DO THAT NO MATTER
I THINK IT FEELS AS THOUGH NOT
WHAT?
FINISHING ANYTHING IN THE
I THINK IT FEELS AS THOUGH NOT
BUILDING THE BUILDING CAN STAY
FINISHING ANYTHING IN THE
AS IT IS BUT BECAUSE THEY'RE
BUILDING THE BUILDING CAN STAY
CHANGING IT.
AS IT IS BUT BECAUSE THEY'RE
YEAH YEAH.
CHANGING IT.
I THINK WE'RE SEEING A CHANGE
YEAH YEAH.
OF VIEWS BECOMES CHAPTER TEN
I THINK WE'RE SEEING A CHANGE
TEMPERATURE AND REQUIRES AREA
OF VIEWS BECOMES CHAPTER TEN
TO BE SUPPRESSED THE WORK AREA
TEMPERATURE AND REQUIRES AREA
OK IF AND IF THAT'S THE CASE
TO BE SUPPRESSED THE WORK AREA
ANY FURTHER PROVISION LIKE THE
OK IF AND IF THAT'S THE CASE
INTRODUCTION OF AN
ANY FURTHER PROVISION LIKE THE
INTERCONNECTED NOTIFICATION
INTRODUCTION OF AN
SYSTEM OR SMOKE DETECTION
INTERCONNECTED NOTIFICATION
SYSTEM THAT IS THAT WOULD BE
SYSTEM OR SMOKE DETECTION
ABOVE AND BEYOND I MEAN I I
SYSTEM THAT IS THAT WOULD BE
THINK THAT I FOCUSED ON THE
ABOVE AND BEYOND I MEAN I I
SUPPRESSION BECAUSE IT WAS THE
THINK THAT I FOCUSED ON THE
BIGGEST THING I'D HAVE TO GO
SUPPRESSION BECAUSE IT WAS THE
BACK BUT THEY'D HAVE TO COMPLY
BIGGEST THING I'D HAVE TO GO
WITH THE REQUIREMENT OF THE
BACK BUT THEY'D HAVE TO COMPLY
IMPLICIT IN THAT.
WITH THE REQUIREMENT OF THE
RIGHT.
IMPLICIT IN THAT.
IF WE'RE LOOKING AT IT IF IT'S
RIGHT.
A CHANGE OF VIEWS.
IF WE'RE LOOKING AT IT IF IT'S
YEAH.
A CHANGE OF VIEWS.
EVERYTHING FROM CHAPTER TEN HAS
YEAH.
TO COMPLY WITH THE CODE .
EVERYTHING FROM CHAPTER TEN HAS
OK, WHICH I THINK THAT THERE'S
TO COMPLY WITH THE CODE .
A NOTIFICATION SYSTEM OF SOME
OK, WHICH I THINK THAT THERE'S
SORT.
A NOTIFICATION SYSTEM OF SOME
YEAH THERE WOULD BE A FIRE
SORT.
ALARM REQUIREMENT I THINK EVEN
YEAH THERE WOULD BE A FIRE
WITHOUT THE CHANGE OF VIEWS
ALARM REQUIREMENT I THINK EVEN
THERE'S STILL A FIRE ALARM
WITHOUT THE CHANGE OF VIEWS
REQUIREMENT SO THAT THAT WOULD
THERE'S STILL A FIRE ALARM
STILL BE INSTALLED AND I
REQUIREMENT SO THAT THAT WOULD
BELIEVE IT'S STILL AN
STILL BE INSTALLED AND I
INTERCONNECTED SYSTEM.
BELIEVE IT'S STILL AN
AGAIN, I'D HAVE TO GO BACK AND
INTERCONNECTED SYSTEM.
LOOK AT THAT.
AGAIN, I'D HAVE TO GO BACK AND
IT REALLY IS THE THE CHANGE THE
LOOK AT THAT.
THE DECLARATION THAT WHERE
IT REALLY IS THE THE CHANGE THE
THERE'S A CHANGE OF VIEWS IS
THE DECLARATION THAT WHERE
WHAT TRIGGERS CHAPTER 10 IN
THERE'S A CHANGE OF VIEWS IS
CHAPTER TEN IS WHAT TRIGGERS A
WHAT TRIGGERS CHAPTER 10 IN
SUPPRESSION SYSTEM.
CHAPTER TEN IS WHAT TRIGGERS A
SO IF THERE IS NO CHANGE OF USE
SUPPRESSION SYSTEM.
THEN THE FIRE SUPPRESSION
SO IF THERE IS NO CHANGE OF USE
SYSTEM IS NOT REQUIRED IN
THEN THE FIRE SUPPRESSION
ARTICLE AND IT WAS PRESENTED
SYSTEM IS NOT REQUIRED IN
AND APPLIED FOR UNDER LEVEL TWO
ARTICLE AND IT WAS PRESENTED
ALTERATION.
AND APPLIED FOR UNDER LEVEL TWO
YES, YES.
ALTERATION.
BUT IT WAS DETERMINED NOT TO BE
YES, YES.
BY THE BUILDING OFFICIAL LEVEL.
BUT IT WAS DETERMINED NOT TO BE
WE'RE STILL WITHIN LEVEL TWO
BY THE BUILDING OFFICIAL LEVEL.
BUT WE STILL BUT THE CHANGE
WE'RE STILL WITHIN LEVEL TWO
WITH THE CHANGE OF THE CHANGE
BUT WE STILL BUT THE CHANGE
IS NOT TO TRIGGER THE CHAPTER
WITH THE CHANGE OF THE CHANGE
TEN APPLICATION SO WE'RE STILL
IS NOT TO TRIGGER THE CHAPTER
UNDER LEVEL TO REHOOK LEVEL TO
TEN APPLICATION SO WE'RE STILL
ALTERATION
.
WE HAVE ENOUGH TO MAKE A MOTION
OR ANY MORE QUESTIONS.
TRY TO GET SOMETHING YOU KNOW,
BUT I DON'T KNOW IF THERE'S ANY
MORE INFORMATION THEY WOULD
NEED YOU TO BE HAPPY IF YOU
WANT TO COLLECT IF YOU WANT TO
PROCEED WITH MOTION AND VOTE OR
IF WE WANT TO YOU KNOW, LOOK AT
ALL ALTERNATIVES OR ABOVE AND
BEYOND WHAT IT WOULD BE, TABLE
IT AND YOU KNOW, ALLOW TIME FOR
THAT OR JUST GO AHEAD AND MAKE
A MOTION
.
I GUESS IF I CAN SAY WE'RE I
THINK WE'RE STILL IN THE
POSITION THAT THAT THE BUILDING
IT IS CLASSIFIED IS IN ORDER TO
USE THAT THERE'S I THINK NOW
THAT WE'RE DOING WORK THERE'S A
SECONDARY LOOK AT WHAT THAT
LOWER LEVEL IS WHICH I
UNDERSTAND.
BUT AT THE SAME TIME THAT
THERE'S NEVER BEEN THERE IS NO
CLEAR CLASSIFICATION THAT WE'VE
BEEN PRESENTED WITH THROUGH ALL
OF OUR DISCUSSIONS THAT WOULD
FALL UNDER ANY PARTICULAR USE
AS AS OUTLINED IN IN THE
BUILDING CODE UTILITY HAS BEEN
STATED STORAGE HAS BEEN STATED
NOW ASSEMBLY IT'S BEEN STATED
AND I THINK THAT THAT REALLY
POINTS OUT A GRAY AREA AND
REALLY I THINK THE SPACE WITH
THE SUBDIVISION OF THE BASEMENT
ALREADY AND TO JUST A COUPLE
OF SMALLER UNITS AND THAT THIS
REALLY SERVING JUST JUST THE
OCCUPANTS OF OF THE RESIDENTS
THEMSELVES I THINK IT DOES FALL
UNDERNEATH THE ORDER TO USE THE
RESIDENTIAL USE OF THE
INHABITANTS CLASSIFY AS STORAGE
AND UTILITY USE.
BUT NOW IT'S GOING TO BE A
FATHER AND A IS WHAT IS THE
SINCE WE'VE SUBMITTED FOR A
PERMIT THOSE ARE THE THREE THAT
HAVE COME BACK TO US.
SO IT'S MULTIPURPOSE.
SO WHY IS IT NOW IS THAT I
THINK THAT'S WHERE WE'RE
APPROACHING THE PURPOSE OF THAT
SPACE THOUGH NOW RIGHT NOW IT'S
GOING TO BE BEDROOMS.
>> SO LITTLE STAR TWO TO THREE
BEDROOMS, YOU KNOW, BUT I
BEFORE IT WAS IT WAS INCIDENTAL
AS FAR AS MECHANICAL YOU KNOW,
LAUNDRY ANYONE ANYONE YOU WANT
TO DO THIS RIGHT.
YOU GUYS ENJOY YOU BUT NO STILL
YOU KNOW, ASSOCIATED THERE ARE
RESIDENTIAL ABOVE.
CORRECT.
I GOT THERE ARE ACTUALLY THEY
ACTUALLY HAD THE PARTITION
WALLS BETWEEN THEM.
IT WOULD BE CLEARER, YOU KNOW,
DAVID'S RIGHT NOW.
YEAH.
I THINK THAT IN A COMMON AREA
LISTEN TO IT ACCESSIBLE BY ALL
OF THE UPPER
I MEAN IT SEEMS A
LITTLE WEIRD THAT IT IS COMMON
THAT YOU CAN ACTUALLY GO DOWN
YOUR STAIR AND OFF YOU KNOW
THAT NOT PARTICULARLY GREAT.
YOU KNOW, I LIKE THE SAFETY
ASPECT OF IT.
YES.
RIGHT AT ALL.
I KNOW IT'S COMING UP INTO MY
HOUSE.
I MEAN THERE'S FIVE LOCKS
PICTURE THAT'S OUT HERE IN THE
KITCHEN BASEMENT SO I GOT TO
HANG OUT IN YOU KNOW HOW THE
HOW THE BEDROOM HARDWARE IS SET
UP.
DO YOU STILL DO THEY ALL HAVE
PRIVACY LOCKS?
>> THEY WILL HAVE PRIVACY
LOCKS.
THEY'LL
I MEAN THERE WON'T BE
LIKE A TRUE DEADBOLT.
IT'LL HAVE LIKE WATCHING
LOCKING MECHANISM ON THE NEW WE
CAN CERTAINLY ADD PRIVACY
EXISTING.
I WOULD THINK THAT THAT WOULD
BE SOMETHING THAT WE WANT TO
PROVIDE ANYWAY BUT THERE WOULD
BE NO DEADBOLT YOU KNOW SECURE
ENTRY IS GOING TO BE CONSIDERED
LIKE A SHARED LIKE HOUSING I
GUESS SO TO SPEAK WHERE YOU
WOULD HAVE AND YOU RENT A ROOM,
RIGHT?
>> EXACTLY.
YEAH.
>> THEN FREE EGRESS WOULD
ALWAYS BE PROVIDED OF COURSE
WITH THOSE.
>> BUT IF YOU'RE LOCKING FROM
INSIDE YOUR BEDROOM YOU'D BE
ABLE TO GET GO TO THE OBVIOUS
POINT THAT THE KITCHEN IS
TIGHT.
WELL IF THEY PUT THE WALLS AND
THEY COULD TAKE THE KITCHEN
DOOR OFF THEIR YOU KNOW, SECURE
IT AT THAT POINT, YOU KNOW,
WOULDN'T YOU COME UP THE STAIRS
AND THEN OPEN THE DOOR THERE
SO
SOMEBODY IF YOU HAVE PRIVACY
LOCKS, THE BEDROOM DOORS, IF
SOMEBODY HAPPENS TO BE ON THE
LOWEST LEVEL AND THERE'S AN
INCIDENT, THE ONLY WAY OUT FOR
THEM IS UP THROUGH THE STAIR.
YOU GO TO WINDOWS IF THEY CAN'T
GET THROUGH THE BEDROOMS WELL
THEY'RE IN THE BEDROOM I THEIR
INDIVIDUAL PRIVACY WHAT IF YOU
FEEL LIKE I'M ON THE INSIDE
DON'T USE A PUSH BUTTON PRIVACY
IF THEY'RE DOWNSTAIRS BUT
THEY'RE NOT LIVING DOWNSTAIRS
THEY'RE USING THE SHOWER
DOWNSTAIRS.
I COULD DO SOMETHING.
YEAH AND THEY CAN'T GET OUT
THEY CAN'T GET THROUGH EITHER
THE TWO BEDROOMS TO THE WINDOW
LS THE ONLY WAY OUT.
YEAH YEAH YEAH YES BUT THAT
DOES MEET THE CODE MINIMUM
REQUIREMENTS OF TRAVEL DISTANCE
THE DOWNSTAIRS IS YES CORRECT.
YEAH IT'S A PET.
YEAH I NEVER UNDERSTOOD YOU
KNOW THE LOGIC THERE BUT I JUST
WANTED TO UNDERSTAND BUT YEAH
YOU GO THAT THAT CONSTITUTES
ALSO PART OF THE EGRESS FOR THE
ENTIRE VERTICAL SEGMENT
CORRECT.
YEAH
.
ANY MORE QUESTIONS FOR THE
APPLICANT MR
.
I MEAN IT SEEMS LIKE IF THERE
IS A VARIANCE HERE IT WOULD BE
THE INTENT OF THE INTERPRETED
AS FAR AS ARE TO VERSUS BEING
AN UNCLASSIFIED USE.
YOU KNOW THE ONLY WAY THAT
WOULD BE A POTENTIAL FOR A
VARIANCE THERE WOULD BE THAT
WOULD BE GOING FROM A GRAY BUT
THE REST OF IT SEEMS LIKE IT'S
YOU'RE BETTER.
I THINK THAT'S HOW YOU KNOW, I
DON'T PRETEND DON'T LIE LIKE A
THOUGHT.
WELL, IT COULD BE IT COULD BE
EQUAL OR BETTER WITH CERTAIN
STIPULATIONS.
ADDITIONAL STIPULATIONS.
THAT'S RIGHT.
YEAH.
SO THAT'S WHAT'S PROPOSED.
I WILL GET THAT ONE OK.
OK I MOVED IT IN THE CASE
OF BVA TWENTY FOUR ZERO ZERO
ZERO ONE THE APPEAL OF THE
BUILDING BOARD'S DECISION THAT
THE WORK PROPOSED AT ATO THREE
MACKINLEY IS GRANTED RELIEF
FROM SECTION TEN TWELVE POINT
TWO POINT ONE OF THE TWENTY
FIFTEEN MICHIGAN REHABILITATION
CODE FOR EXISTING BUILDINGS AND
THE BOARD OF APPEALS REVERSES
THE BUILDING OFFICIALS DECISION
FOR THE REASONS THAT NUMBER
THREE THE APPLICANT HAS
PROPOSED AN EQUAL OR BETTER
FORM OF CONSTRUCTION THROUGH
PROPOSED IMPROVEMENTS WITH THE
FOLLOWING PROVISIONS THAT THERE
BE INCLUDED AN INTERCONNECTED
FIRE ALARM SYSTEM ACROSS ALL
FOUR UNITS ON ALL LEVELS AND AT
THE TOP LEVEL SEMI HABITABLE
SPACE IS CLOSED OFF UNOCCUPIED
OR IS PHYSICALLY REMOVED
OCCUPIED THAT WOULD BE A THIRD
LEVEL OR SECOND LEVEL.
THAT WOULD BE THE THIRD FLOOR
LEVEL.
THE THIRD LEVEL GOES THROUGH
THE BEDROOMS OF ACCESS
.
ANY OTHER ADDITIONS OR COMMENTS
ON THE MOTION?
IS IT POSSIBLE TO MAKE A
COMMENT?
>> THE HOUSE IS ALREADY BEING
TAXED AT THE FORTY SEVEN
HUNDRED SQUARE FEET OF THAT
SPACE BECOMES UNINHABITABLE.
THAT CHANGES THE TAXABLE VALUE
SO THAT THE ENTIRE IF YOU CUT
YOUR YOU'RE SUGGESTING THAT THE
ENTIRE TOP LEVEL WOULD NOT BE
CONSIDERED HABITABLE SPACE AT
ALL.
SO NOT EVEN THE CHANCE FOR A
SINGLE BEDROOM IS THAT I HAVE A
REAL PROBLEM WITH IT.
I UNDERSTAND THAT THE THE BUT
THE BOTTOM LEVEL IS THE SORT
OF THE PRIMARY ISSUE HAVING TO
DO WITH CHANGE OF OCCUPANCY.
>> BUT BUT I JUST I LOOKING AT
THE CONFIGURATION THE BUILDING
IN TOTAL AND WHAT HAPPENS IF
THE LOWER LEVEL BECOMES AN
ACCEPTABLE HABITABLE SPACE IT
IT JUST TO ME IT'S PUTTING TOO
MUCH PRESSURE ON THE BUILDING
FROM IT FROM A HABITATION AND
LIFE SAFETY POINT OF VIEW.
SO SO THE MOTION IS BEING
STRUCTURED FROM MORE FROM THE
POINT OF VIEW OF REAL LIFE
SAFETY AND LIFE SAFETY THAN
THAN ADDRESSING THE CHANGE
OF OCCUPANCY ISSUE WHICH I'D
LIKE TO TALK ABOUT AFTER WE GET
TO THE COMMENTS AND SO ON.
I WILL SAY THAT IT HAS BEEN
INSPECTED FOR RENTAL IN THE
PAST.
YEAH, AND I WOULD HAVE TO LOOK
INTO IT FURTHER BUT I DON'T
KNOW IF THE THIRD FLOOR HAS
BEEN ADDRESSED BY ANOTHER BOARD
VERY HARD TO USE VARIANCE WHICH
IS A POSSIBILITY.
>> YOU HAVE AN EXTERNAL FIRE
ESCAPE SYSTEM.
>> DOES THAT GO TO THE THIRD
FLOOR BECAUSE THERE IS THIS
CAME DIRECTLY FROM THE THIRD
FLOOR.
YEAH.
THAT'S ALREADY EXISTING.
SO THE SPACES ARE ALREADY GOOD.
>> YEAH.
SO I GUESS THE TRADEOFF IS
TRADING UP ONE THE THIRD FLOOR
FOR GETTING TO IN THE BASEMENT
SO TWO IN THE BASEMENT MAYBE
SAFER THAN WATER THE THIRD
FLOOR AND I WAS BROUGHT I
UNDERSTAND I THINK THE LOGIC
AND I THINK THE THING THAT
WE'RE GRAPPLING WITH IS THAT IT
IS WE'RE DOING SOMETHING THAT
IS NOT ALLOWABLE TO ADD THE
ADDITIONAL BEDROOMS, UM,
MEETING ALL THE SQUARE FOOTAGE
REQUIREMENTS EGRESSED
REQUIREMENTS, VENTILATION
REQUIREMENTS AND ALLOW THE
NUMBER OF BEDROOMS PER UNIT
EVEN SO, I THINK THAT THAT IS
WHAT WE FEEL LIKE IS YOU GUYS
IT WAS VERY QUIET SO YOU CAN
KEEP THE THIRD FLOOR IF YOU
SPRINKLE THE SOUNDS LIKE IS
THAT WHAT YOU WOULD YOU
WOULDN'T HAVE YOU WOULDN'T HAVE
TO PROCEED WITH VARIOUS YOU CAN
GO AHEAD AND COMPLY WITH
CODE SPRINKLE THE LOWER LEVEL
AND LOWER LEVEL AND SO ON THAT
OPTION IF THAT IS THE MOTION
THAT IS BEING PRESENTED THEN WE
WOULD LIKE TO RESCIND THE
APPEAL.
OK, SO NOT TO CROSS BOARDS THE
THIRD NIGHT COME INTO PLAY AND
SEE WHERE YOU'RE GOING WITH IT
NOW I CAN LOCK THE MOTION,
STAND ENDING IT ON THE PART
OF ALL FOUR UNITS ON ALL LEVELS
AND STRIKE THE PART ABOUT THE
THIRD OR THE TOP LEVEL BEING
CLOSED OFF AND YOU JUST PUT
THAT TO A VOTE.
BUT THE OTHER PARTS OF THE
INTERNET VAST MAJORITY BUT I
COULD NOT NOT IF IT'S AN APPEAL
IT'S BEING GRANTED IF IT'S
APPEAL, IF IT'S AN APPEAL, IT'S
BEING DENIED THEN THEY HAVE TO
FOLLOW THROUGH.
IF I'M UNDERSTANDING THIS
CORRECTLY, IF THE APPEAL IS
DENIED, THEN THEY HAVE TO TREAT
IT AS A CHANGE OF VIEWS AND
EVERYTHING THAT FOLLOWS WITH
THAT WHICH INCLUDES THE FIRE
ALARM SYSTEM AND THE
SUPPRESSION FOR THAT LEVEL.
IF IT'S AN APPEAL THAT'S BEING
GRANTED THE PROVISION OF THE
FIRE ALARM SYSTEM THROUGH A
BUILDING IS AN ADDED
STIPULATION TO MAKING IT AN
EQUAL OR BETTER FORM
OF CONSTRUCTION THAT GET THAT'S
WHAT IT SOUNDED LIKE ERM WHAT
YOU'RE SAYING SO YEAH I
FLOATING THIS IN THE
AFFIRMATIVE FOR THE VOTE IN
DISCUSSION ON THE ON THE MOTION
WHEN THE APPLICATION OF THE
PROJECT DESCRIPTION DOES SAY
EACH UNIT HAS TWO BEDROOMS
GOING TO FOUR BEDROOMS SO IT
DOESN'T THEY DON'T SEEM TO
ADMIT THAT THEY USE THE THIRD
FLOOR FOR A BIT THAT'S PART
OF THE UPPER FLOOR BEDROOM I
GUESS IS CONTINUOUS TO THE
OTHER.
YEAH WELL IT'S A LARGE BEDROOM
,LARGE BEDROOMS IF YOU HAVE A
BEDROOM.
YEAH OK.
IT'S IT'S OUT YEAH.
OK.
>> ANY OTHER DISCUSSION ON
USERS INTERCONNECTED FIRE ALARM
SYSTEMS THROUGHOUT THE ENTIRE
BUILDING.
>> WELL ACROSS ALL FOUR UNITS
ON ALL LEVELS I MEAN ACTUALLY
KIND
OF OFF YOU THE EXISTING
RECORDING UNIT ONE TWO BEDROOM
UNIT TO A TWO BEDROOM UNIT
THREE OR TWO BEDROOM OR TWO
BEDROOM.
THE PROPOSED IT'S GOING TO BE
FOUR BEDROOMS TOTAL BUT I COULD
GET WAY MORE BEDROOMS.
>> WELL, BECAUSE THAT THIRD
FLOOR IS EXACT CONDITION.
IT'S TWO BEDROOMS ON LEVEL TWO
AND THEN THAT THIRD FLOOR SPACE
REALLY IS THAT KIND
OF ADDITIONAL SPACE IF WE'RE
DOING AN ADDITIONAL TWO
BEDROOMS SORRY I'M TALKING
ABOUT YOU RIGHT NOW HAVE THREE
BEDROOMS, TWO ON THE THIRD
FLOOR OR ONE ON THE THIRD
FLOOR, TWO ON THE SECOND.
>> THERE ARE THREE ON THE
SECOND FLOOR, THREE TWO ON THE
SECOND FLOOR, TWO ON THE SIDE
OF THE BIG ONE AND BACK REALLY
.
YEAH, YEAH.
TWO ON THE SECOND FLOOR YOU
HAVE THREE ROOMS ON THE SECOND
FLOOR THEN YOU HAVE THE THIRD
FLOOR WHICH IS A HABITABLE
SPACE RIGHT NOW NOT BEING
IDENTIFIED CAPITAL BEDROOM BUT
THEY ARE CALLING IT A BEDROOM
RIGHT NOW BUT ISN'T IT ONE,
TWO, THREE.
WELL IT'S NO NO.
TWENTY SIX CLARIFICATION PAGE
THERE'S THERE ARE TWO BEDROOMS
CURRENTLY TWO ONE ON THE SECOND
FLOOR.
>> ONE OF THOSE IS BY LEVEL HAS
ACCESS TO THAT THIRD FLOOR
SPACE.
I'M SORRY I GOT TWO BEDROOMS ON
THE SECOND FLOOR THE SECOND
BEDROOM HAS ACCESS TO THE ONE
OF THE SECOND BEDROOMS HAS
ACCESS TO THE THIRD FLOOR SPACE
SO CONTINUE CONTINUOUS A THIRD
RIGHT SO THAT THE BED SPACE IS
ON THE THIRD FLOOR.
YEAH.
CAN BE UTILIZED BY AN OCCUPANT
OF ONE OF THE IS LIKE A SWEET
SWEET IT'S LIKE YES TO YEAH I
SAW THE THIRD FLOOR NOT LEAST
OUT TO AN INDIVIDUAL THAT THE
LEASE IS ON THE MAIN THING.
RIGHT AND THAT IS NOT A BEDROOM
UP THERE IT'S JUST BABY SITTING
ROOM.
MAYBE YOU CAN CORRECT ME UP
THERE SOMETHING ELSE.
YEAH YEAH.
SO THE AMENDMENT TO THE MOTION
FILED FOR YOUR CONSIDERATION
THAT MAKE THE FINAL LEVELS
THAT'S APPROVED BY THE FIRE
MARSHAL SO HE CAN REVIEW AND
COMMENT ABOUT THE DESIGN OF THE
SYSTEM AS APPROVED BY THE FIRE
MARSHAL OR AS YOU KNOW.
>> SO JUST FOR CLARIFICATION,
THE FIRE MARSHAL WILL TURN IT
BACK OVER TO THE BUILDING
DEPARTMENT BECAUSE THE CURRENT
THE CURRENT WAY THAT THAT IS
HANDLED WITHIN THE CITY RIGHT
NOW IS THE BUILDING DEPARTMENT.
DOES DUTY REMAIN FOR AN ALARM
SYSTEM?
>> OK, SO IF YOU GIVE IT OVER
TO ME, I'M GOING TO GIVE IT
BACK TO THE BUILDING SO BILLING
DEPARTMENT HALF OF IT IS
QUALIFIED 13 OF THOSE SYSTEMS
TYPICALLY IN THE HOUSE YOU'VE
GIVEN THAT WE HAVE THE COUPLE
OF INSPECTORS WHO ARE ABLE TO
REVIEW THOSE AND THEN EVEN THE
OF WITH SMITH CHAPERONS FOR
THAT FIRST PUT IN IS THAT
TYPICAL?
THE PROCESS WORKS AND YOU WERE
AT THAT POINT IN YOUR VIEW THAT
IS INSPECTED IT'S ONLY SO I
GUESS WE CAN HAVE THAT THE
CEMENT SHOPFRONTS ARE APPROVED
BY THE NOVARUM.
I GUESS BEFORE THAT THEY YOU
KNOW, THAT REVIEW HAPPENED
NOTHING.
>> YOU APPROVE THEM AND YOU
REMOVE THEM.
YEAH.
>> OF THIS RELIABILITY FROM
THEM AND I'M JUST WONDERING IF
THAT ENDS UP BACK HERE IF WE IF
WE DO A REVIEW IN WHICH IS FINE
YOU KNOW MULTIPLE APPEALS CAN
BE MADE ON DIFFERENT YEAH.
DIFFERENT SUBJECTS.
YEAH.
THEY GIVE YOU FIRST LINE
OF SIGHT OF WHAT THE SYSTEM IS
YOU KNOW AND AND WE WOULD
REVIEW IT TO MAKE SURE IT COME
RIGHT.
YEAH.
AND SO I GUESS COMPLETELY
COMPLYING WITH WHATEVER IT IS
AND YOU YOU SAID THAT WAS THE
ALARM SYSTEM.
>> YES.
SO PAUL, YOU WERE TRYING YOUR
FRIENDLY AMENDMENT THEN TO HAVE
IT AS APPROVED BY THE FIRE
MARSHAL.
THAT WAS YOUR FRIENDLY
AMENDMENT THAT WAS MADE FROM
THE AMENDMENT.
YEAH, YEAH.
I MEAN TRYING IT I GUESS I CAN
CHANGE IT FOR REVIEW BY THE
DRILLING OFFICIAL BEFORE IS THE
PROPER TERM.
>> HOW ABOUT THIS IN LIEU
OF THE FRIENDLY AMENDMENT JUST
SAY IN IT IN NFPA SEVENTY TWO
SYSTEM APPROVED BY THE OFFICIAL
OK CAN YOU EXPLAIN WITH THE
MOTION CURRENTLY AS I'M SURE
IT'S BASICALLY AN APPEAL TO
GRANT THE APPEAL THAT YOU
PROPOSED TO PEOPLE WITH BETTER
FORM OF CONSTRUCTION THROUGH
THE PROPOSED IMPROVEMENTS WITH
THE FOLLOWING PROVISIONS THAT
SHOULD BE INCLUDED IN AN
INTERCONNECTED FIRE ALARM
SYSTEM ACROSS ALL FOUR UNITS ON
ALL FOUR LEVELS BASED ON A NFPA
CONFORMING TO SORRY CONFORMING
TO A NFPA SEVENTY TWO SYSTEM
APPROVED BY THE BUILDING
OFFICIAL
SO THAT THE THIRD
FLOOR PROVISION HAS BEEN
REMOVED.
YEAH YEAH YEAH YEAH.
>> DOES DOES THAT PUT US RIGHT
RIGHT.
NOT THE WAY I UNDERSTAND IF
AGAIN IF THE APPEAL WAS
DISAPPROVE WHICH WAS NOT
APPROVED THEY WOULD HAVE TO DO
EVERYTHING THAT THE CHANGE
OF USE A CHANGE OF OCCUPANCY
REQUIRES MEETING FIRE ALARM
SYSTEM AND SPRINKLER SYSTEM.
SO I'M FLOATING AN APPEAL BE
GRANTED THAT ON THE BASIS THAT
THEY PROVIDED AN EQUAL OR
BETTER FORM OF CONSTRUCTION,
SOME OF THE IMPROVEMENTS IN THE
BASEMENT WITH THE ADDITION
OF AN INTERCONNECTED FIRE ALARM
SYSTEM THAT'S PRIOR TO THE
GRANTING IS BEING IS NOT WE'RE
IS NOT A CHANGE IN USE AND
WE'RE SAYING THAT ADDRESSING
OK, OK, BUT I WANT EVERYBODY
READY.
WE'RE JUST GOING TO SAY BEFORE
I MAKE A RULING ON THE CHANGE
IN USE THIS IS TURNING INTO
MORE FREQUENT.
YEAH YEAH YEAH EXACTLY.
OK THAT WAS A WE WOULD SAY THAT
WE WERE MAKING THE MOVIE OR TO
USE IT WAS YOU KNOW I WOULD
MEAN THAT WAY YOU KNOW AND
THAT'S NOT DEALING WITH THE
CHANGE.
THAT'S RIGHT.
YEAH BUT I DON'T DON'T DON'T
INCLUDE THAT IN THE MOTION
.
THE QUESTIONS ARE COMMENTS.
YEAH.
ALL RIGHT.
WE HAVE A MOTION A SECOND
PROMOTION.
OK, GREAT.
ALL RIGHT.
THOSE IN FAVOR I I I VOTED
AGAINST SO TOO AGAINST TWO FOUR
SO IT DOESN'T PASS SO THE
MOTION HAS BEEN DENIED.
LOOKS LIKE SO THE MOTION IS NOT
GRANTED THE APPEAL IS NOT
GRANTED
I DON'T THINK THERE'S
ANYTHING ELSE FOR THIS APPEAL.
I THINK THAT'S OK.
THAT'S THANK YOU FOR YOUR TIME
PRESENTING THIS.
IT WAS A CHALLENGING DISCUSSION
THERE.
THANK YOU VERY MUCH FOR YOUR
TIME.
THANK YOU.
>> NEXT ITEM ON THE AGENDA IS
WILL BUSINESS THERE'S GOING TO
LISTEN ALL BUSINESS THAT HAS NO
BUSINESS YOU DON'T WANT TO
COVER UP ANY UPDATES ON.
>> NEXT ITEM IS NEW BUSINESS
NOTHING ON THE AGENDA FOR THAT.
AND THE LAST ITEM ON THE AGENDA
ADJOURNMENT.
WE HAVE A MOTION TO ADJOURN
BEFORE WE ADJOURNED.
CAN I?
YEAH, I GUESS SO.
>> THIS THIS WHOLE THING
ACTUALLY KIND OF CAUGHT ME A
LITTLE BIT BY SURPRISE THAT
THAT THERE WAS THAT THIS IS
ESPECIALLY SINCE THE APPLICANT
HAS SAID THAT THEY'VE DEALT
WITH THIS BEFORE AND IT'S IN
IT'S BEEN SOMEHOW IT'S BEEN
HANDLED BEFORE AND I JUST
WONDER AT WHAT POINT CAN THE
CITY MAKE A DETERMINATION LIKE
JUST ACROSS THE BOARD
CODE DETERMINATION THAT IF
THESE SORTS OF THINGS HAPPEN
AGAIN AND INVARIABLY THEY WILL
YOU KNOW, THIS IS ONE OF THOSE
CLASSIC HOW MUCH CAN WE GET OUT
OF A BUILDING AT ALL TIMES?
HOW MUCH CAN WE GET BUILDING
AND AT WHAT POINT DOES DO YOU
HAVE TO MAKE THE BUILDING FOR
FALL IN LINE WITH YOUR CURRENT
LIFE SAFETY CONSIDERATIONS AND
AND I'M SURE THIS ISN'T GOING
TO BE THE FIRST ONE THAT COMES
ACROSS THE BOARD.
YEAH, YOU KNOW, I ACTUALLY
THOUGHT THIS MIGHT FALL INTO
THE REALM OF THE HOUSING BOARD
OF APPEALS.
>> THAT'S WHAT I WAS THINKING.
>> THERE'S VIRTUALLY, YOU KNOW,
NEW CONSTRUCTION FOR HOUSING
BOARDS
.
WELL, EVEN JUST WITH THE
OCCUPANCY OF THE THIRD FLOOR, I
YEAH, VERY HIGH FOR SOMEBODY UP
THERE LIKE THAT.
SOMEBODY THERE AT THE END IT'S
LIKE OH NO, IT'S JUST EXTENDED
USE IF YOU SAY SITTING ROOM I
MEAN IT'S LIKE YEAH SO AND
HONESTLY I MADE IT FOR ME I HAD
A MUCH BIGGER PROBLEM WITH THE
FACT THAT THEY WERE PACKING
THIS BUILDING AND THEN THEN THE
CHANGE OF USE BUSINESS BECAUSE
AND ACTUALLY I WAS ACTUALLY A
LITTLE BIT SURPRISED THAT THEY
DIDN'T THEY INVITED THE
OPPORTUNITY TO SUPPRESS THE
LOWER LEVEL BUT I READ THE SAME
ONE TO SYSTEM BECAUSE THAT'S
WHAT HAPPENED CREATED THE GUY
FROM THE STREET'S BIG BOX AND
THEN THEY GOT YOU KNOW, YOU
ALSO DON'T GO IN THERE.
IT'S NOT CHEAP .
IT'S I CAN MAKE A POINT
OF ORDER.
>> I THINK WE WERE AT THE POINT
WHERE WE NEED TO ADJOURN THE
MEETING FOR I DON'T HAVE A
CONTINUE DISCUSSION.
I WAS WONDERING WHY IT COULDN'T
BE ADDRESSED AS A LOCAL LAW OR
SOMETHING LIKE THAT.
IT JUST KIND OF REFLECTS THE
YOUR LOCAL INTERPRETATION OR
THE BUT THERE'S NO REAL WAY
OF MOST OF ALL WHAT'S GOING ON
OUT THERE.
MOTION TO ADJOURN.
I MOVED WE ARE ADJOURNED AT TWO
THIRTY SIX